---
layout: post
title: "Chilean Internal Migration"
date: 2017-07-19 12:01:16
image: /assets/img/
description:
main-class: 'DEMOGRAPHICS'
color:
tags:
- polygon
- demographics
- research project
- Rates
- Space-time
categories:
twitter_text:
introduction: "A temporally consistent framework for the analysis of internal migration over a period covering twenty-five years from 1977 to 2002."
---
<script>
  var map = L.map('map');
  L.tileLayer('https://api.tiles.mapbox.com/v4/{id}/{z}/{x}/{y}.png?access_token=pk.eyJ1IjoibWFwYm94IiwiYSI6ImNpejY4NXVycTA2emYycXBndHRqcmZ3N3gifQ.rJcFIG214AriISLbB6B5aw', { <!--this is the URL for the Harmonised_municipalities Geojson-->
		maxZoom: 18,
		attribution: 'Map data &copy; <a href="http://openstreetmap.org">OpenStreetMap</a> contributors, ' +
			'<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">CC-BY-SA</a>, ' +
			'Imagery © <a href="http://mapbox.com">Mapbox</a>',
		id: 'mapbox.light'
	}).addTo(map);

  map.scrollWheelZoom.disable();
  map.touchZoom.disable();
  var enableMapInteraction = function () {
      map.scrollWheelZoom.enable();
      map.touchZoom.enable();
  }
  $('#map').on('click touch', enableMapInteraction);

  // load GeoJSON from an external file
  // load GeoJSON from an external file
  $.getJSON("../data/Harmonised_municipalities.geojson",function(data){
    // add GeoJSON layer to the map once the file is loaded
    var json = L.geoJson(data);
    json.addTo(map);
    map.fitBounds(json.getBounds());
  });

</script>

Data provided "as is", no warranties.

This dataset presents the CHilean Internal Migration database which provides a temporally consistent framework for the analysis of internal migration over a period covering twenty-five years from 1977 to 2002. Specifically, it offers a hierarchical system of 304 municipalities, 51 provinces and 13 regions, and 10 occupational groups and 11 industrial sectors which are temporally consistent over the 1977-82, 1987-92 and 1997-2002 census intervals.

Sources:
- Rowe F, & Bell M (2013) <i>Creating an integrated database for the analysis of spatial mobility in Chile</i> (Working Paper 02/2013). Queensland Centre for Population Research, School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

- Rowe F (2017) The CHilean Internal Migration (CHIM) database: Temporally consistent spatial data for the temporal analysis of internal migration in Chile, REGION

 Type = polygon shape file

 Variables = 10

 Observations = 304

 Year Range = 1977-2002

 Spatial resolution = low

 Topic = demographics

 Type of sample data = research project

 Rates

 Space-time


|Variable|Description|
|:-------|:----------|
|IDN_1|Unique spatial unit identifier|
|C_REG|Region code|
|REG|Region name|
|C_PROV|Province code|
|PROV|Province name|
|C_MUN|Temporal municipality code|
|MUN|Temporal municipality name|
|Pop_1982, Pop_1992, Pop_2002|1982-1992-2002 census population |

The Matrices folder contains three sub-folders corresponding to data from the 1982, 1992 and 2002 Chilean Housing and Population census. Each sub-folder contains six additional sub-folders, containing origin-destination migration data by sex, age, education, employment class, employment status. industry and occupation. The migration data are in long format ie. each row represents an origin-destination pair, indicating the number of migrants between temporal municipalities. The six sub-folders are:

- overall
- sex age and education
- sex age and employment class
- sex age and industry
- sex age and labour force status
- sex age and occupation
- sex and age

Note:
- The overall, sex, age and education subfolders provide data for the entire census population.
- The labour force status subfolder provides data for the population aged 15 and over
- The employment class, industry and occupation subfolders provide data for the population aged 15 and over in employment

**Labels:**
Files’ labels follow the label of their containing folder eg. file “data_1_4_5_1982.csv” within the “sex age and industry” contain data for sex 1, age group 4 and industry 5. See the “Variable listing and metadata.xlsx” file for the variable code definition.

Population folder:
has the same file structure of the “Matrices” folder and provide matching data on the population at risk  for each of the origin-destination matrices.



|Regional variables*| Unit of measurement|
|----|----|
|Per capita wages | in Chilean pesos|
|Unemployment rate | in %|
|Cumulative Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) |USD millions|
|Exports|USD millions, FOB|
|Housing cost index|Index 100=1980|
|Housing cost supply |In number of housing units|
|15-34 age population|in %|
|Agricultural employment |in %|
|Owner occupiers|in %|
|Population |in number of people|

(*) The Regional variables data files provides information on 10 variables for three five-year census intervals: 1977-82, 1987-92 and 1997-2002

***Note:*** No information for wages and exports is available for the 1977-82 interval. Cumulative Foreign Direct Investment corresponds to the sum of all five years in the interval. For detail information on these variables, see Rowe F, (2013) *Spatial labour mobility in a transition economy: Migration and commuting in Chile*, PhD Thesis, School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, The University of Queensland.


Prepared by Joshua Mark for the Center for Spatial Data Science ([https://spatial.uchicago.edu/](https://spatial.uchicago.edu/))

 Last updated July 19, 2017.
